it's Jiang here from ultimate RC and RC
mania calm the place for toy grade RC
reviews this is my look at the air hogs
heli cage now at first glance this looks
like a micro sized RC helicopter with a
couple of loops of plastic around it
that's exactly what it is the cage is
designed to protect the rotors and make
us of it when the thing crashes it lands
on its feet well on its skids the
helicopter itself has a pretty
traditional design other than the
aesthetic look of it it's got a single
main rotor blade up top and then a tail
rotor for stability and turning and then
the controller is also pretty standard
fare with throttle for up and down
movement on the left stick and turning
on the right stick it also has a couple
of trim buttons down here for left and
right in case the thing spins on its own
without you asking it to the heli cage
also adds two additional buttons up here
bumper buttons one on the left is to
move forward one on the right is to move
forward even faster and further hidden
away in a compartment on the front is a
charging jack which you can plug
directly into the bottom of the
helicopter and that's how you get juice
into it it takes about a half an hour of
charging to get five minutes of flight
this here was my very first time taking
off with the heli cage as you can see it
just spun out of control on its own this
is very common with air Hawks
helicopters and as I mentioned earlier
there are trim buttons which will
correct that if it spins to the left the
right trim button will stop it and vice
versa
even once it's trimmed out though the
heli cage is a little bit of a handful
to keep under control unlike most modern
micro helicopters this one has no
gyroscopic stabilization system in it it
won't keep itself pointing in one
direction it'll actually start to turn
on its own most of the time and you have
to correct it manually through your own
control inputs it feels like a balancing
act I'm constantly moving the right
stick right and left and right and left
just trying to keep the helicopter
within a 6 foot or so square of airspace
now here's a test of one of the go
forward buttons here I start it and
there I let go and now I'm just trying
to keep it under control again you see
it kind of goes forward and then wants
to come back again it almost acts like
it's hanging from a string on the
ceiling and just being
around by the wind it's not really under
my control
here's another attempt to go forward
there it goes and there it comes back
hmm
well moving on here's a test of the
Caged mechanism to see how well it
handles crashing into a wall well that
worked
landed right on it skids and then I was
able to just take back off that sure
beats having to walk over and set the
heli back up straight every time I want
to fly again as long as you have a flat
smooth surface beneath you it will
almost always land on its skids it can
be tough taken off again if you land too
close to the wall though what the cage
on the heli cage doesn't allow you to do
is reliably bump into things and still
keep on flying you have to expect that
if you touch a wall or a piece of
furniture you're going down that is
unless you just get stuck to the wall
check this out this happened a bunch of
times I don't know about you but I think
that's pretty cool I don't think it's
supposed to do this though for the $40
u.s. that the Air Hogs heli cage costs I
would have expected it to fly a little
bit better than it does
I just can't ignore the fact that for 10
to 15 bucks less you can get a
gyro-stabilized micro helicopter they
can actually hover in one place turn
hold its direction and go forward and
reverse when you want it to
I think the helicase is best reserved
for younger kids those are going to be
excited to be able to just control
helicopter going up and down an adult
can use the trim controls to get it to
not spin and then the young pilot can
safely crash it repeatedly into the
ceiling and walls that's it for my
thoughts on the Air Hogs heli cage be
sure to regularly visit RC mania comm
for more RC reviews